Language modeling is one
of the most basic and
important tasks in natural
language processing.
There's also one that RNNs do very well.
In this video, you learn about how to
build a language model using an RNN, and
this will lead up to a fun programming
exercise at the end of this week.
Where you build a language model and
use it to generate Shakespeare-like
texting, other types of text.
Let's get started.
So what is a language model?
Let's say you're building this
speech recognition system and
you hear the sentence, the apple and
pear salad was delicious.
So what did you just hear me say?
Did I say the apple and pair salad, or
did I say the apple and pear salad?
You probably think the second
sentence is much more likely, and
in fact,
that's what a good speech recognition
system would help with even though these
two sentences sound exactly the same.
And the way a speech recognition
system picks the second
sentence is by using a language model
which tells it what the probability
is of either of these two sentences.
For example, a language model
might say that the chance for
the first sentence is
3.2 by 10 to the -13.
And the chance of the second sentence
is say 5.7 by 10 to the -10.
And so, with these probabilities,
the second sentence is much more likely
by over a factor of 10 to the 3
compared to the first sentence.
And that's why speech recognition
system will pick the second choice.
So what a language model does is given
any sentence is job is to tell you
what is the probability of a sentence,
of that particular sentence.
And by probability of sentence I mean,
if you want to pick up a random newspaper,
open a random email or
pick a random webpage or
listen to the next thing someone says,
the friend of you says.
What is the chance that the next
sentence you use somewhere out there in
the world will be a particular sentence
like the apple and pear salad?
[COUGH] And this is a fundamental
component for both speech recognition
systems as you've just seen,
as well as for machine translation systems
where translation systems wants output
only sentences that are likely.
And so the basic job of a language
model is to input a sentence,
which I'm going to write as
a sequence y(1), y(2) up to y(Ty).
And for language model will be useful to
represent a sentences as
outputs y rather than inputs x.
But what the language model does is
it estimates the probability of that
particular sequence of words.
So how do you build a language model?
To build such a model using an RNN
you would first need a training set
comprising a large corpus of english text.
Or text from whatever language you
want to build a language model of.
And the word corpus is an NLP terminology
that just means a large body or
a very large set of english
text of english sentences.
So let's say you get a sentence
in your training set as follows.
Cats average 15 hours of sleep a day.
The first thing you would do
is tokenize this sentence.
And that means you would form a vocabulary
as we saw in an earlier video.
And then map each of these words to,
say, one hunt vectors,
alter indices in your vocabulary.
One thing you might also want to
do is model when sentences end.
So another common thing to do is to
add an extra token called a EOS.
That stands for End Of Sentence that can
help you figure out when a sentence ends.
We'll talk more about this later,
but the EOS token can be appended to
the end of every sentence in your training
sets if you want your models
explicitly capture when sentences end.
We won't use the end of sentence token for
the programming exercise at the end
of this week where for some applications,
you might want to use this.
And we'll see later where
this comes in handy.
So in this example, we have y1,
y2, y3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Nine inputs in this example if you append
the end of sentence token to the end.
And doing the tokenization step,
you can decide whether or
not the period should be a token as well.
In this example,
I'm just ignoring punctuation.
So I'm just using day as another token.
And omitting the period, if you want to
treat the period or other punctuation
as explicit token, then you can add
the period to you vocabulary as well.
Now, one other detail would be what if
some of the words in your training set,
are not in your vocabulary.
So if your vocabulary uses 10,000 words,
maybe the 10,000 most common
words in English, then the term Mau as
in the Egyptian Mau is a breed of cat,
that might not be in one
of your top 10,000 tokens.
So in that case you could take the word
Mau and replace it with a unique
token called UNK or stands for
unknown words and would just model,
the chance of the unknown word
instead of the specific word now.
Having carried out the tokenization
step which basically means
taking the input sentence and
mapping out to the individual tokens or
the individual words in your vocabulary.
Next let's build an RNN to model
the chance of these different sequences.
And one of the things we'll see
on the next slide is that you end
up setting the inputs x = y or
you see that in a little bit.
So let's go on to built the RNN model and
I'm going to continue to use this
sentence as the running example.
This will be an RNN architecture.
At time 0 you're going
to end up computing some
activation a1 as a function
of some inputs x1, and
x1 will just be set it to the set
of all zeroes, to 0 vector.
And the previous A0, by convention,
also set that to vector zeroes.
But what A1 does is it will
make a soft max prediction to
try to figure out what is
the probability of the first words y.
And so that's going to be y.
So what this step does is really,
it has a soft max it's trying to predict.
What is the probability of
any word in the dictionary?
That the first one is a, what's
the chance that the first word is Aaron?
And then what's the chance
that the first word is cats?
All the way to what's the chance
the first word is Zulu?
Or what's the first chance that
the first word is an unknown word?
Or what's the first chance that the first
word is the in the sentence they'll have,
shouldn't have to read?
Right, so y hat 1 is output to a soft max,
it just predicts what's
the chance of the first word being,
whatever it ends up being.
And in our example, it wind up being
the word cats, so this would be a 10,000
way soft max output,
if you have a 10,000-word vocabulary.
Or 10,002,
I guess you could call unknown word and
the sentence is two additional tokens.
Then, the RNN steps forward
to the next step and
has some activation,
a to the next step.
And at this step, his job is try
figure out, what is the second word?
But now we will also give
it the correct first word.
So we'll tell it that, gee, in reality,
the first word was actually Cats so
that's y1.
So tell it cats, and this is why y1 = x2,
and so at the second step the output
is again predicted by a soft max.
The RNN's jobs to predict was the chance
of a being whatever the word it is.
Is it a or Aaron, or Cats or
Zulu or unknown whether EOS or
whatever given what had come previously.
So in this case,
I guess the right answer was average since
the sentence starts with cats average.
And then you go on to
the next step of the RNN.
Where you now compute a3.
But to predict what is the third word,
which is 15,
we can now give it the first two words.
So we're going to tell it cats
average are the first two words.
So this next input here, x = y,
so the word average is input, and
this job is to figure out what is
the next word in the sequence.
So in other words trying to figure out
what is the probability of anywhere than
dictionary given that what
just came before was cats.
Average, right?
And in this case,
the right answer is 15 and so on.
Until at the end, you end up at, I guess,
time step 9, you end up feeding it x(9),
which is equal to y(8),
which is the word, day.
And then this has A(9), and
its jpob iws to output y hat 9,
and this happens to be the EOS token.
So what's the chance of whatever this
given, everything that comes before, and
hopefully it will predict that
there's a high chance of it, EOS and
the sentence token.
So each step in the RNN will look at
some set of preceding words such as,
given the first three words, what is
the distribution over the next word?
And so this RNN learns to predict one
word at a time going from left to right.
Next to train us to a network,
we're going to define the cos function.
So, at a certain time, t,
if the true word was yt and
the new networks soft max
predicted some y hat t,
then this is the soft max loss function
that you should already be familiar with.
And then the overall loss is just
the sum overall time steps of the loss
associated with
the individual predictions.
And if you train this RNN
on the last training set,
what you'll be able to do is given any
initial set of words, such as cats
average 15 hours of, it can predict
what is the chance of the next word.
And given a new sentence say, y(1), y(2),
y(3)with just a three words,
for simplicity,
the way you can figure out what is the
chance of this entire sentence would be.
Well, the first soft max tells
you what's the chance of y(1).
That would be this first output.
And then the second one can tell you
what's the chance of p of y(2) given y(1).
And then the third one tells you what's
the chance of y(3) given y(1) and y(2).
And so by multiplying out
these three probabilities.
And you'll see much more details
of this in the previous exercise.
By multiply these three, you end up with
the probability of the three sentence,
of the three-word sentence.
So that's the basic structure of how you
can train a language model using an RNN.
If some of these ideas still seem a little
bit abstract, don't worry about it,
you get to practice all of these
ideas in their program exercise.
But next it turns out one of the most fun
things you could do with a language model
is to sample sequences from the model.
Let's take a look at
that in the next video.